Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now they are gonna be many times when you need to test more than two possible situations and to do this
we can use an if if else block.
Let's take a look at an example.
So consider an online banking application that tells you what your interest rate is based on your balance.
First we ask the user for the balance.
Let's start off income and get use or balance.
OK.
Then we ask the user for her actual balance balance equals in part
opened double quote.
What is your bank balance.
Question mark.
First of all quote close brackets if he uses bank balance is less than 50 dollars that they did not
qualify to earn interest if integer because of user input that we got back will be a string balance.
I'm going to use our comparison's operators here now what we saw in a previous lecture is less than
or equal to 50.
Don't forget your code which I nearly did print.
You do not qualify for interest
perfect or if to use his bank bounds is less than one dollars but more than $50.
Then they qualify for one percent interest.
Finally if you use it bounds is over $100 and they get 2 percent interest.
So let's add that in there.
So if balance is less than 100.
Your interest.
Actually I've forgotten my opening double quote here so your interest rate is 1 percent.
Close your double quotes.
Close your bracket.
Else
print
your interest
rate is 2 percent.
OK.
We can use as many blocks as we like in our code.
So let's run this now and see what happens.
First we have to say that command an S and then run.
OK so here we go.
What does your bank balance my bank balance is $10.
You do not qualify for an interest rate.
OK.
That's unfortunate.
So let's say I've made a deposit run Mudgal.
What does your bank balance my bank balance is $51 your interest rate is 1 percent.
OK.
Let's run it one more time and have a look my bank balance is $102.
Your interest rate is 2 percent.
Okay perfect.
So let's just go back to our program and step over this for a second.
First we are so used to our balance.
So what does your bank balance.
And we wait for the user's input if their balance is less than 50 or less than or equal to $50.
So I think from 50 dollars down to zero you do not qualify for interest.
Now then we say out if Al if indeed your balance is less than 100.
But we've already caught anything from 50 downwards.
So this catches anything from 50 upwards but not greater than 100.
Your interest rate is 1 percent and then else what we're saying here is anything over 100 is 2 percent.
So I hope that makes sense.
Let's expand on this program now and not another half block.
So we're going to modify this here and we're going to say if the balance is zero we're going to print
would you like to make a deposit.
Close close close that and then we're going to put our first what was previously our first print statement
into an atlas if and balance after the teeter and balance is less than or equal to 50 than we print.
You do not qualify for interest.
Okay.
So let's run this again.
First we save it and let's run it now.
What does your bank balance.
Well my balance is zero.
Would you like to make a deposit.
Perfect.
At the end of our program there is an Alice block.
So here it is here.
Platon doesn't actually need an ounce block at the end of it.
If it's changed by closing our program or else we are using it as a kind of catch all statement for
anything over the 100 dollar mark and applying an interest rate of 2 percent that we are saying the
plight and that anyone with a balance of over 100 dollars gets the interest of 2 percent.
Sometimes we'll make more sense to end with an If statement that catches a specific condition of your
program.
Now I hope this makes sense.
I'm going to be coming back to this program in later lectures and expanding on it.
If you've any questions as always don't hesitate to reach out.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.